One of my hobbies is binging on music. As an active subscriber of Spotify, I beat 94% of the subscribers in 2022 in terms of streaming.

The Spotify Personal Music Data Analysis is an individual project I did in July, 2022. <br/><br/>
I used data visualizations (i.e. ggplot2) to analyze my music taste and preference. <br/>
Also, I built prediction models (i.e. linear regression model, stepwise forward model, tree model) and found the one with the best performance to predict the streaming time of a track based on its audio features.

This April, I delved deeper into the Spotify recommendation system. I did a hands-on project and wrote a machine learning research paper. For hands-on proejct, I used both content-based filtering method and collaborative filtering method to evaluate Spotify recommendation system. I built various regression models such as linear regression, decision tree, random forest, and neural network model to predict the streaming time based on audio features. I used two similarity metrics such as Euclidean distance and cosine similarity to find the similar songs of a target song based on audio features. For machine learning paper, I wrote a research paper that compared the performance of Support Vector Regression and Feedforward Neural Network models within the context of the Spotify Recommendation System. This study aimed to provide insights into the effectiveness and potential advantages of these two machine learning techniques in improving music recommendations on Spotify.
